Right, it is the 23rd of August 2022 and I'm here talking to, recording an interview with Ian May there.
Ian, just as a cross reference, could you tell me the year in which you were born?
1960.
Brilliant, thank you. And to start off, could you give me a little bit of information about yourself, your childhood, where you grew up,
what your career path followed?
Yep, I was kind of born in Ashford in Kent, went to school at the William Harvey Grammar School in Fogsten.
I did a degree at Reading University and then I worked as a community worker for a couple of years.
Then I joined the NHS management training scheme, I worked in the NHS for a number of years, I worked for the Audit Commission.
And then I retrained, when I was 40, I retrained in public health and struggled to pass the exams, but eventually got there and became consultant in public health.
I'm married, I've got two children, one of whom is upstairs at the moment.
And yes, my interests are music, I like music. I play the accordion badly and I'm a very keen tennis player.
Thank you. And what is your connection with the GOAT group, the Getting Old in the Shed group?
No, we're not getting old, we're getting on at the Shed.
Oh, beg your pardon, sorry.
It's a play on words, we get on in that we meet at the Shed and we get on because we are getting old.
So it's a bit more delicate than getting old.
And how?
My link with that is I've...
It stems from involvement with our local park, which is a gorgeous old Victorian park, Cottridge Park.
And I've been involved in the Friends group for on and off for the last 20, 25 years, 1997.
A wonderful woman who is the real driving force behind it.
She was aware that the council was going to decommission the park.
We weren't quite sure what that meant, but it didn't seem like a good thing.
And you thought this is the thin end of the wedge.
Next thing you know, they'll be building on the park.
And she made a very powerful argument that you can't do this.
Our Victorian forebears left this for the enjoyment of the people of Birmingham.
And you can't simply make a political choice at this stage just to save money.
So we have managed to hold on to the park.
And ever since then, we've kind of built from doing an annual music festival to them putting on things in the park.
And the building, the shed, as it's called, was put up in...
Well, it was opened in August 2020.
So we actually had our second anniversary.
We had a birthday party on Sunday, which unfortunately I couldn't attend because I was at Green Man.
But the goats came about because, and this was just pre-COVID, we put in a bid with the Neighbourhood Renewal Fund.
I think that's probably not... Neighbourhood Network Scheme, that's what it is locally for a group that...
There used to be a building in the park which was called the Sons of Rest building.
And it was put up by the Cadbury's as a place for industrial workers who'd retired to meet up.
So we were kind of drawing on that idea for a group called like the goats.
And we put in a bid. So we had some funding initially to get it off the ground.
But of course, during COVID, all we were able to do really was Zoom calls.
But it got a lot of thinking done.
People were involved in that about what we wanted, what our aims would be.
And then the goats, we were looking at...
There was a lot of us were interested in walking.
And I looked at a local walking group called Walkspace.
And on their rather fantastic website, they had some stuff about...
That they'd come across about a woman who'd done the walking the pipe thing.
And that turned out to be Kate Green.
I got in touch with her and she sent me all her stuff.
And at one point, we had this rather wild idea that we would walk, do her walk basically.
But some of the people in our group are not sufficiently mobile to do that.
So although we've done a couple of walks out there, done some stretches and actually seen some aqueduct architecture,
we've certainly haven't done the whole walk.
73 miles, yes.
It's really endeared us to Kate.
But I think the thing that really endeared us to Kate, or the other way around,
was that she'd sent me this songbook of songs she'd written.
And there's a few people who are musicians within our group.
So we recorded a couple of her songs, actually did them live at the Shed.
And then I sent her the recordings, which is a bit cheeky because we'd actually rewritten some of the verses as well.
But she kind of thought it was marvelous.
And then she came and visited and then there was that whole Cannon Hill Park bit.
So, yes, it's intriguing how these things just work out.
You just follow your nose and wonderful things happen.
And last week, you came to the Ellen Vahey for the first time.
Can you tell me what your impressions were of it?
Yeah.
Well, I just made me think, why haven't I been here before?
I should have come years and years and years ago.
Because it was all so relevant and intriguing.
And I suppose it was the culmination of the little bits and pieces that we've done around the pipe.
But to actually see where the water comes from and just enjoy the countryside and marvel at the engineering.
And because you were fantastic hosts, I think the group are rather stunned about how we were treated.
It was gorgeous staying in that what looks on the face of it to be a brand new spanking brand new building in the bunkhouse and then having our little tour around.
So, yeah, everyone's really kind of very chuffed, really.
Well, it was lovely to meet you all.
But were you aware of where your water came from before, sort of like your connection with Kate and coming down to visit us?
I was. And I think if you question the group, probably 50-50.
I mean, some of our group are old enough that they did as school kids go out to Elan Valley.
Actually, I don't think any of the ones that were on the trip fall into that category.
But certainly we've got one of our number is a history teacher.
Unfortunately, he has to look after his wife a lot of the time, so he couldn't come for an overnight stay.
But he remembers taking kids there.
And there was another guy down the road who suffers from COPD, so he couldn't make it.
But he remembers going out as a kid and people remember the model in their child.
This is the Cannon Hill Valley model.
They remember going there in the 60s as children and pottering around.
And because I didn't know he had a little motor, so it was actually a working model.
I guess it was because it's now it's now quite run down and it just sits there looking rather kind of sorry for itself.
So we're hoping, obviously, for the 150th anniversary of Cannon Hill Park next year to get the model refurbished and restarted.
And I know our archivist, Matt, working with Kate Green on that.
So hopefully it will all come together the right time.
Yeah, I sincerely hope so.
And if we can help in any way, we'd be only too pleased to do what we can do.
Thank you very much for that.
And thank you very much for this interview, Ian.
That's been really good to talk to you.
That's a pleasure.